---
layout: post
title: PyData SF 2016
---

*This post is months behind*

I had the pleasure of attending PyData this August in SF. This was my first time, but definitely won't be my last. The conference had around 200 attendees and the content is very typical of a technical conference (tutorials, keynotes, breakout sessions). I had an extremely good experience and even made some friends!

One of the best keynotes that stuck with me was Peter Wang's (CTO of Continuum). I highly recommend watching his video if you want to listen yourself (I don't like watching videos, but I actually re-watched his talk after they posted it online).

{% include youtubePlayer.html id="JvDKFcoTD0g" %}

To summarize, his whole talk revolved around the changes that are happening in the data science community. He touched on his perspectives of how we should adapt to these changes, from both business and technical perspectives. Let me make it easier by putting it into bullet points.

1. Knowing the difference between true innovations and disruptions from noise is important. True innovations and disruptions force us to think about our **fundamental** problems.
2. Solving problems requires people. People are long term investments because they change and learn slower than machines. He jokes about companies that hire for people with certain technical skills, which changes almost on an annual basis. The point is that code and infrastructure will change often, and so having someone who knows how to code in language X is short term tactics, but having someone who knows **HOW** to leverage technology to solve problems is part of a long term strategy.
3. Open-source software has disrupted how traditional businesses function. Conway's law states that any piece of software reflects the communications structure of the organization that produced it. He comes up with his own version of this, which is:
`Business (data) architecture evolves to reflect the budget structure of the IT groups that maintain it.`
Meaning that most architecture is not strategic for operational needs, not ensuring future analytical agility, and not optimizing for insights. Because open-source software is free, businesses will have to adjust to how they've traditionally budgeted for data architecture.
4. Encouraging continuous Python community support, which is part of what he believes to have contributed to Python's popularity in the last few years.

The following are my thoughts...
For #3, if software reflects the communications structure of the organization, then could data products also reflect the (data) culture of the organization? For example, what's the split between planned work vs *ad hoc* work? Who produces these data products and do they feel empowered to do so? Are they both technically sufficient and have enough business knowledge?

For #4, the entry to barrier is pretty low with Python, a language that is less demanding on syntax. As such, it's become a very popular language with data scientists, who are typically not programmers by training. Consequently, Python's community support is mind blowing. The biggest advantage and **power** to open-source tools/languages is the community. I don't know if it was purposely done this way by Continuum, but their values definitely show through their work and even the way they interact with community members. Does this apply to life in general? Perhaps power is maintained through inclusivity, not exclusivity.
