---
layout: post
title: PyData SF 2016
---

*This post is months behind*

I had the pleasure of attending PyData this August in SF. This was my first time, but definitely won't be my last. The conference had around 200 attendees and the content is very typical of a technical conference (tutorials, keynotes, breakout sessions). I had an extremely good experience and even made some friends!

One of the best keynotes that stuck with me was Peter Wang's (CTO of Continuum). I highly recommend watching his video if you want to listen yourself (I don't like watching videos, however, I actually re-watched his talk after they posted it online).

<iframe width="420" height="315" src="https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=JvDKFcoTD0g" frameborder="0" allowfullscreen></iframe>


To summarize, his whole talk revolved around the changes that are happening in the data science community. He touched on his perspectives of how we should adapt to these changes, from both business and technical perspectives. Let me make it easier by putting it into bullet points.
1. Knowing the difference between true innovations and disruptions from noise is important. True innovations and disruptions force us to think about our **fundamental** problems.
2. Solving problems requires people. People are long term investments because they change and learn slower than machines. He jokes about companies that hire for people with certain technical skills, which changes almost on an annual basis. The point is that code and infrastructure will change often, and so having someone who knows how to code in language X is short term tactics, but having someone who knows **HOW** to leverage technology to solve problems is part of a long term strategy.
3. Open-source software has disrupted how traditional businesses function. Conway's law states that any piece of software reflects the communications structure of the organization that produced it. He comes up with his own version of this, which is:
`Business architecture evolves to reflect the budget structure of the IT groups that maintain it.`
Meaning that most architecture is not strategic for operational needs, not ensuring future analytical agility, and not optimizing for insight. Because open-source software is free, businesses will have to adjust to how they've traditionally budgeted for data architecture.
4. Encouragement of continuous Python's strong community support, which is part of what he believes to have contributed to Python's popularity in the last few years.

For #3, if software reflects the communications structure of the organization, then could data products also reflect the (data) culture of the organization? For example, what's the split between planned work vs *ad hoc* work? Who produces




Code and infrastructure will change often,






python community
20th pydata conference





every aspect of how we handle business data will be disrupted,  (ingest, store, manage and compute)

while there's noise in the data technology space,
true innovations and disruptions force us to think about our **fundamental** problems.

short term pragmatic and long term strategic,
people change and learn slower than machines, if you invest in people, make sure they're long term investments
learning technology that's relevant for the long term
ABOUT problem/approaches that are relevant in the long term

infrastructure/code will change often...he discourages hiring people based on specific skills.
Think about technology short term, but people who know how to USE that technology is long term


How does Python play at the enterprise level?
Traditional ways of pigeonholing tools/people are falling apart, as we change software and hardware infrastructures
and as we bring in people who are more cross functional.

THIS APPLIES ACROSS ROLES TOO!!!!

Interview data science job: who's posting them?

Open source: avoid lock-in, harness innovation, recruiting, but they forget the most important thing: community.
Conway's law: any piece of software reflects the communications structure of the organization that produced it.

Peter Wang Corollary:
Business archi evolves to reflect the budget structure of the IT groups that maintain it.
not strategic for operational needs
not ensuring future analytical agility
not optimizing for insight


DS: experimental, exploratory, science! If you want new ideas/areas, inference, insight, knowledge, it isn't a processing problem!
architecture of how to ensure this happens, is a new problem for business!



Core value prop:
empowering individuals. but, businesses don't know how to manage this.


Welcoming to new people:
